---
title: "Captain’s Reflog: The Sample Edition"
sub_title: "The common elements"
categories:
  - Reflog
last_modified_at: 2019-07-27T08:48:58-07:00
---

Commander William Riker of the Starship Enterprise. You're going to be an interesting companion, Mr. Data. Travel time to the nearest starbase? And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant to be in two places at once. I think you've let your personal feelings cloud your judgement.

Talk about going nowhere fast.

Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for 75 years? Maybe we better talk out here; the observation lounge has turned into a swamp. I am your worst nightmare! Congratulations - you just destroyed the Enterprise. Captain, why are we out here chasing comets? Flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence. I'll alert the crew. For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them in others. Earl Grey tea, watercress sandwiches... and Bularian canapés?

Are you up for promotion? I'll be sure to note that in my log. When has justice ever been as simple as a rule book? Wouldn't that bring about chaos? We finished our first sensor sweep of the neutral zone.

I've had twelve years to think about it. And if I had it to do over again, I would have grabbed the phaser and pointed it at you instead of them. Worf, It's better than music. It's jazz. I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. I will obey your orders. I will serve this ship as First Officer. And in an attack against the Enterprise, I will die with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty to Starfleet. How long can two people talk about nothing? Sorry, Data. Well, I'll say this for him - he's sure of himself. This should be interesting. A surprise party? Mr. Worf, I hate surprise parties.

I would *never* do that to you. Mr. Worf, you do remember how to fire phasers?

Not if I weaken first. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. Your shields were failing, sir. Is it my imagination, or have tempers become a little frayed on the ship lately? That might've been one of the shortest assignments in the history of Starfleet.

You did exactly what you had to do. You considered all your options, you tried every alternative and then you made the hard choice. The unexpected is our normal routine. We have a saboteur aboard. Besides, you look good in a dress. The game's not big enough unless it scares you a little. You enjoyed that. This is not about revenge. This is about justice.

Shields up! Rrrrred alert!
